Chaired by Franck Montaugé, the Senate inquiry on cyber sovereignty delivered its report on October 1, 2019. Among the topics covered in this document: the challenge of "cryptoactifs". "The cryptoactifs are defined by their private, completely virtual and by their lack of physical or financial backing. It exists almost 1600 today at an estimated capitalization to nearly 270 billion. Your rapporteur noted that there was a strong ambivalence about cryptoactifs: a strong attraction to the innovations proposed but a constant concern to protect investors, consumers and the stability of the financial system. Faced with their development and to meet their potential, the Covenant law framed more explicitly intermediaries digital assets, with two control components. To compose the list of 6358 scams exploiting the fame of Bitcoin and cryptomonnaies, we met several sources including testimonials from our readers and lists the AMF of CryptoFR, House of Bitcoin, of acheter1bitcoin.fr, of warning-trading.com, of adcfrance.fr of cryptoscambuster and badbitcoin.org. The list obtained by the merger is however not exhaustive and may contain errors. If you want to help us improve it by adding new sites or alerting us on abusive reporting, please contact us and / or leave your comments at the bottom of this article. You will find below both pyramid schemes, fake "bitcoin faucets" and a large number of scams related to investment in cryptomonnaies (false exchanges, brokers false) or "mining". "A specter is haunting the world of cryptomonnaies: the specter of maximalism. In this series of articles, I propose to examine in depth what is called maximalism of bitcoin to determine where this ideology is based and to show what impact it has on the ecosystem crypto-economic protocols. I will focus in this article to try to understand where maximalism to give a clear definition. The task is not easy in the sense that many people claim the maximalism, but demonstrate to varying degrees. The objective is to clear the general essence of the doctrine professed by the most influential maximalists. "Article Ludovic Lars reading on viresinnumeris.fr